hey this is Anthony with RevZilla TV
where you can watch decide and ride
welcome to our detailed breakdown of the
new Revit xcalibur jacket available at
revzilla.com so at first glance the
xcalibur is really a three and a half
season coat it's going to perform really
really well in that fall and spring
range it'll take you deep into the cold
weather riding season with a waterproof
breathable removable liner as well as a
thermal removable liner but there are a
few vents on it and the being that it's
not as ventilated as some of the other
products in the Revit line like the
Outback or the sand - I'm gonna give it
that three and a half season mark
meaning depending on your temperature
tolerance there might be a cutoff point
somewhere in the summer where it just
doesn't flow enough air so keep that in
mind
so past that I have ed to my left
six-foot 210 44-inch chest he's wearing
a size large you can see the tour fit
how it works on his body adjustments in
the arms you also have adjustments along
the waist it's gonna be a rock-solid fit
for him there are really no surprises
with the xcalibur
moving into the protection side of
things you can also see that there's a
lot going on here
rabbits using a 600d Polyana main
construction which isn't crunchy it's
not going to be but it's also not soft
you know that there's a good level of
protection here then we're using a
PowerShell rib in the abrasion resistant
areas they're gonna be impact prone like
the shoulders like the elbows if I move
Ed's arm up here it's also using the CD
rated Knox flex or Armour on the
shoulders as well as the elbows now a
little bit of a note about the back
protection because we're making a change
in 2013 with Revit all of these jackets
are going to come with a temper foam pad
that's replaceable in years past there
was a NOx protector we've also had the
SAS tech rivets now doing a new sea eel
'evil to see soft RV back insert that
actually is size specific so if you want
to upgrade the back protection here on
the xcalibur
what you're going to want to do is look
at the size chart the size of the jacket
that you're purchasing and then buy the
back protector that's the appropriate
size for the pocket and if you have the
jacket first it's really easy because
it'll be labeled on the pocket keep in
mind to a note on sizing depending on
what size you wear and depending on any
of your concerns over 13 bucks we ship
for free exchange for free no restock
fees if you need to send it back to us
now moving into the nuance and the
nuance is what Revit typically does so
well the three season three and a half
season coat you want better
thing remember you're going to go to
that outback you're going to go up to
something like that sand - but looking
at some of the features there are a lot
of shared features here that are those
creature comforts revenant uses high
quality zippers high quality snaps we
see YKK rated zippers that Fiocchi snaps
which are spring-loaded that aren't
gonna wear out over time
we talked about the ventilation so
you're gonna have to check you're gonna
have two chest vents here on the front
we're also going to have a sleeve vent
which is a nice touch and for those of
you depending on your riding position I
ride a lot of upright bikes I'm up to a
Multistrada guy right now on the Dona
Ducati I like these vents they tend to
flow a good amount of air up the sleeve
you also have a nice covered eyelet here
that's going to have your volume
adjuster for your bicep which is a nice
touch and then you also have the ability
to ratchet in some of the flap egde that
depending on the circumference of your
forearm
you can now strap that armor down tight
and make sure it stays in the right
place I mentioned YKK zippers moving
into the collar spring-loaded snap that
goes into a five-way adjustable collar
it's kind of I always joked at the Ron
Popeil collar you set it and forget it
so you put it for the right
circumference for your neck and then you
leave it and it's gonna stay in the
stay-put tricot lining which is a nice
micro fleece at the collar that's also
wicking and then you have a nice roll at
the top which is gonna keep it from
chafing other features you might not be
keying in on 3m scotchlite or an angle
that create a it's a good level of
function and reflectivity but it's
styled really nicely and then we also
have hand warmer pockets that do have a
zipper turn to the side form add a few
different color ways available this is a
silver black red there's also a full
black version you can see the adjustment
under the sleeve and if you come in here
tightly you can see this you know the
the tucked away zipper with a hand
warmer pocket and also has a snap there
to keep it in place come backwards for
me Ed now this is a nuance that through
the product pictures you might not
decipher this is actually a vent it's
what I call a passive vent so it's going
to allow some of the air that's coming
in through the inside or through the
front to circulate around your body and
it's gonna get forced air out through
this back vent again it's a low profile
area it creates some passive ventilation
but it's not going to be as effective as
something like a direct back vent and
that's again why I've given it that
three and a half season rating versus a
four full a full four season rating here
where the summertime would be no no
match for it if it had some bigger
events but again
that's all a style thing and that's your
preference there a lot of folks out
there they're riding really when it gets
just too sticky warm in the summer they
might have a mess jacket or they might
they might just stop riding come back
around to the front you know a note on
further seasonality and some of the
other lines if you're looking to go
three season warm weather there's always
the Levante in the Revit mix which is
really a similar multi season jacket
that's going to have more of a mesh
construction that's not going to perform
in the winter so keep that in mind and
if we break this guy down I'm going to
open it up here on buzzsaw you're gonna
see here's my outer shell mesh lined on
the interior and then what you can also
see is we have it zipped in on the right
side that this is going to be my Hydra
Tex waterproof breathable layer which is
completely removable and it is finished
you can know you can always tell when
they hide that zipper that it's meant it
has a nice style to it can be worn as a
destination layer and then as we come
down the inside of the front and open up
further you're going to see our quilted
thermal liner that is a full sleeve
liner and that's really how you're able
to get that foreseer that three and a
half season cold weather functionality
and how you're gonna get good coverage
if you go into the winter months with
really what I'm considering a multi
season sport and sport touring coat by
the style because it is waist length and
remember something like that Alf back or
stand are gonna be slightly longer than
the waist they're going to give you a
little bit more coverage if you want to
delve into that longer distance more
aggressive or dual sport touring range
also notice the collar here again you
have that fleece lined collar kind of at
every step here on the thermal not so on
the hydro tex but then here in the main
construction collar that's gonna get the
most contact with your neck it's not
going to chafe you so remember no
surprises on shipping exchange if you
get the wrong size it's no problem
you're gonna earn teamzilla cash with
every order over a hundred bucks we save
you money in the long run you can notice
that I have the pants on edy here I have
the enterprise pants which are full
waterproof pant from Revit that are new
for the season you even color match so
it completes the set for that full
waterproof outfit if you're going that
direction if you want to talk to a gear
geek shoot us a line and see us at
revzilla.com or 18 7 7 9 2 9 4 5 5 and
remember to subscribe to us at RevZilla
TV on youtube stay up to date with all
the latest gear reviews are constantly
rolling out find the Revit Excalibur
jacket at revzilla.com slash Revit I'm
Anthony we'll see you next time
you